the first book of Samuel now there was a
certain man of Rama thiam's oaf him of
the mountains of Ephraim and his name
was Elkanah the son of Jerome the son of
Allah Hugh the son of - Hugh the son of
zeus and ephraim aight and he had two
wives the name of one was hannah and the
name of the other pnina pnina had
children but hannah had no children this
man went up from his city yearly to
worship and sacrifice to the Lord of
hosts in Shiloh also the two sons of Eli
hophni and Phinehas the priests of the
Lord were there and whenever the time
came for Elkanah to make an offering he
would give portions to pnina his wife
and to all her sons and daughters but to
Hanna he would give a double portion for
he loved Hannah although the Lord had
closed her womb and her rival also
provoked her severely to make her
miserable because the Lord had closed
her womb so it was year by year when she
went up to the house of the Lord that
she provoked her therefore she wept he
did not eat them Elkanah her husband
said to her Hannah why do you weep I do
not eat and why is your heart grieved am
I not better to you than ten sons so
Hannah
arose after they had finished eating and
drinking in Shiloh
now Eli the priest was sitting on the
seat by the doorpost of the tabernacle
of the Lord and she was in bitterness of
soul and prayed to the Lord and wept in
anguish then she made a vow O Lord of
Hosts if you will indeed look on the
affliction of your maidservant and
remember me and not forget your
maidservant but will give your
maidservant a male child then I will
give him to the Lord all the days of his
life and no razor shall come upon his
head and it happened as she continued
praying before the Lord that Eli washed
her mouth
now Hannah spoke in our heart only her
lips moved but her voice was not heard
therefore Eli thought she was drunk how
long will you be drunk
put your wine away from you no my lord I
am a woman of sorrowful spirit
I have drunk neither wine nor
intoxicating drink but have poured out
my soul before the Lord do not consider
your maidservant a wicked woman for out
of the abundance of my complaint and
grief I have spoken until now go in
peace and the God of Israel grant your
petition which you have asked of him
let your maidservant find favor in your
sight so the woman went her way and ate
and her face was no longer sad then they
rose early in the morning and worshiped
before the Lord and returned and came to
their house a tremor and elkanah knew
hannah his wife and the Lord remembered
her so it came to pass in the process of
time that Hannah conceived and bore a
son and called his name Samuel because I
have asked for him from the Lord now the
man Elkanah and all his house went up to
offer to the Lord the yearly sacrifice
and his vow but Hannah did not go up for
she said to her husband not until the
child is weaned then I will take him
that he may appear before the Lord and
remain there forever so Elkanah her
husband said to her - what seems best to
you wait until you have weaned him only
let the Lord establish his word then the
woman stayed and nursed her son until
she had weaned him
now when she had weaned him she took him
up with her with three bulls one Aoife
of flour and a skin of wine
and brought him to the house of the Lord
in Shiloh and the child was young then
they slaughtered a bull and brought the
child to Eli
oh my lord as your soul lives my lord I
am the woman who stood by you here
praying to the Lord for this child I
prayed and the Lord has granted me my
petition which I asked of him therefore
I also have lent him to the Lord as long
as he lives
he shall be lent to the Lord so they
worshiped the Lord there
you
[Music]